---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "Obey The Rules: Coding Style"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2024-09-24
published: true
labels:
  - coding style
  - ESLint
---
## My Experience with VSCode and ESLint
Recently I've had the chance to use VSCode for the first time. It is definitely a big jump from previously using the TypeScript Playground. I've also incorporated the usage of ESLint. ESLint is a tool that helps fix, identify errors, and enforces coding style. While I am still getting used to it, I will say that it is pretty tedious and difficult when having to constantly run specific things before starting your code. For example having to write stuff such as "npm run lint" and "nvm install" each time can be annoying. My professor was nice enough to give a whole list of step by step instructions on how to set up and use ESLint. However, I've been running into many errors and warnings in the process which have been very stressful. I am taking an ICS314 class and we are beginning to use a handful of files in our codes, so VSCode comes in handy for that. Being able to download each file and drag it into a designated folder makes it much easier than when I'd previously be copying and pasting long files of codes into TypeScript Playground. Another pro of VSCode is the fact that you can run 'fix'. This allows a lot of simple errors to be fixed automatically. It's so helpful that it just fixes numerous errors at once for me! I definitely love that about using this platform instead of TypeScript Playground which did not have that luxury. While ESLint is annoying to have to install and prepare, I think that it is really beneficial with handling errors and suggestions. 

## Thoughts On Coding Styles
To start off, I will say I don't really have a solid coding style foundation. In my most recent previous class I used the Mac Terminal to code and they enforced a special coding style for their class. It was actually fun to follow along, and they had commands to run that would check and tell you what coding styles were not being followed. Running and fixing the coding style errors in that class were really fun for me. With out the help I would not have had an accurate coding style form in any of my codes. While it can be annoying to see so many red squiggly lines, I think that coding styles are so necessary. In my future career path, software engineers may have to collaborate their work and show eachother their codes. If no one is following a coding style I can see it being so hectic and difficult to understand. Coding Styles allow your code to be organized and legible. It's just like when you have to peer edit someone's hand written essay, If their handwriting is so messy and the format is all over the place, you would struggle trying to understand what the jumbled up words are saying. I've been told many times how horrible my coding style is; missing brackets (which creates errors), and uneven spaces. So having access to ESLint is super beneficial to me because it enforces me to keep my brackets orderly and spaces even. Overall while my coding standards are still very questionable, I think that being able to practice through VSCode and tools like ESLint will help me in breaking my horrible coding style. I think coding style is such an important skill to have and everyone should be following coding standards. In the long run it makes your life easier as well as your coworkers and peers!
